Add zero-shot query classification to QueryClassifier page (#381)
deepset-ai/haystack-website: docs/latest/pipeline_nodes/query_classifier.mdx

# Query Classifier

Classifying queries lets you route them to specific branches of your pipeline that are better suited to handling them, giving you better search results.
The QueryClassifier populates the metadata fields of the query with the classification label and can also handle the routing.

> For example, it can be used to route keyword queries to a less-computationally expensive sparse Retriever, while passing questions to a dense Retriever, thus saving you time and GPU resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can use it to route keyword queries to a less computationally expensive sparse Retriever while passing questions to a dense Retriever, thus saving you time and GPU resources.
```

> Alternatively, queries can also be categorized by topic and routed to the appropriate database.

Reviewer: How about: QueryClassifier can also categorize queries by topic and, based on that, route them to the appropriate database.

# Query Classifier

Classifying queries lets you route them to specific branches of your pipeline that are better suited to handling them, giving you better search results.

> The QueryClassifier populates the metadata fields of the query with the classification label and can also handle the routing.

Reviewer: I think adding an example would be good. 
I also liked the previous text, it was more detailed and explained the query classifier clearly. Any reason you got rid of it?

|__Classes__     | TransformersQueryClassifier<br />SklearnQueryClassifier                                                                                                                                             |
|||

> 

Reviewer: I'd keep this section, I think it's good for novice users

## Usage

> You can use the QueryClassifier as a stand-alone node in which case it returns two objects: the query and the name of the output edge. To do so, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the QueryClassifier as a stand-alone node, in which case it returns two objects: the query and the name of the output edge. To do so, run:
```

# Query: Which country was jon snow filmed in?, raw_output: ({'query': 'Which country was jon snow filmed in?'}, 'output_1'), class: question
```

> To use the QueryClassifier within a pipeline as a [decision node](/pipeline_nodes/overview#decision-nodes), run:

Reviewer: again, I would keep the deleted section. I think these explanations are useful

pipe = Pipeline()
pipe.add_node(component=query_classifier, name="QueryClassifier", inputs=["Query"])
pipe.add_node(component=dpr_retriever, name="DensePassageRetriever", inputs=["QueryClassifier.output_1"])
pipe.add_node(component=bm25_retriever, name="BM25Retriever", inputs=["QueryClassifier.output_2"])

# Pass a question -> run DPR
res_1 = pipe.run(query="Who is the father of Arya Stark?")

# Pass keywords -> run the BM25Retriever
res_2 = pipe.run(query="arya stark father")
```

Here, the query is processed by only one branch of the pipeline, depending on the output of the QueryClassifier.

> ## Distinguishing between Keywords, Questions and Statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Distinguishing between Keywords, Questions, and Statements
```

> One recommended setup would be to route both questions and statements to a DensePassageRetriever, which is better accustomed to these types, while routing keyword queries to an ElasticsearchRetriever.

Reviewer: So the title of the section is distinguishing between three types of queries so I'd expect it to start with an explanation of what these query types are .

Reviewer: ok, so there's a query types definitions section below, I'd get rid of the title "Query types definitions" and would move the contents here.

> To learn about these different query types, see [Query Type Definitions](/pipeline_nodes/query-classifier#query-type-definitions).

Reviewer: I'd expect this content here, I think I'd be annoyed if I came to this section to find out whats the difference between the query types and then you're sending me to yet another section

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6007894/127831511-f55bad86-4b4f-4b54-9889-7bba37e475c6.png)

> A code example of this configuration is shown in [Usage](/pipeline_nodes/query-classifier#usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see a code example of this configuration in [Usage](/pipeline_nodes/query-classifier#usage).
```

This pipeline has a `TransformersQueryClassifier` that routes questions and statements to the node's `output_1` and keyword queries to `output_2`.

> The DensePassageRetriever to `QueryClassifier.output_1` and the ESRetriever to `QueryClassifier.output_2`.

Reviewer: This should be a sentence, it's missing the verb.

pipe = Pipeline()
pipe.add_node(component=query_classifier, name="QueryClassifier", inputs=["Query"])
pipe.add_node(component=dpr_retriever, name="DensePassageRetriever", inputs=["QueryClassifier.output_1"])
pipe.add_node(component=bm25_retriever, name="BM25Retriever", inputs=["QueryClassifier.output_2"])

# Pass a question -> run DPR
res_1 = pipe.run(query="Who is the father of Arya Stark?")

# Pass keywords -> run the BM25Retriever
res_2 = pipe.run(query="arya stark father")
```

Here, the query is processed by only one branch of the pipeline, depending on the output of the QueryClassifier.

> ## Classifying Keyword, Question and Statement Queries

Reviewer: Oxford comma ;)

<Disclosures
    options={[
        {
            title: "Keyword Queries",
            content: (
                <div>

                Keyword queries don't have sentence structure. They consist of keywords and the order of words does not matter. For example:

> 

Reviewer: I think the example is missing

        {
            title: "Question",
            content: (
                <div>
                    In such queries, users ask a question in a complete, grammatical sentence. A QueryClassifier can classify a query regardless of whether it ends with a question mark or not. Examples of questions:
                    <li>who is the father of arya stark?</li>
                    <li>which country was jon snow filmed in</li>
                    <li>who are the younger brothers of arya stark?</li>
                </div>
            )
        },
        {
            title: "Statement",
            content: (
                <div>
                    This type of query is a declarative sentence, such as:
                    <li>Arya stark was a daughter of a lord.</li>
                    <li>Show countries that Jon snow was filmed in.</li>
                    <li>List all brothers of Arya.</li>
                </div>
            )
        }
    ]}
/>

One recommended setup would be to route both questions and statements to a DensePassageRetriever, which is better accustomed to these types, while routing keyword queries to an ElasticsearchRetriever in order to save GPU resources.

> To learn about these different query types, see [Query Type Definitions](/pipeline_nodes/query-classifier#query-type-definitions).

Reviewer: The link doesn't work any more. I think you should delete the whole sentence in line 110

# Pass keywords -> run only BM25Retriever -> return Documents
res_2 = pipe.run(query="arya stark father")
```

### Models

> To perform this classification of keywords, questions and statements, you can use either the TransformersQueryClassifier or SkLearnQueryClassifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform this classification of keywords, questions, and statements, you can use either the TransformersQueryClassifier or SkLearnQueryClassifier.
```

The TransformersQueryClassifier is more accurate than the SkLearnQueryClassifier as it is sensitive to the syntax of a sentence.

> However, it requires more memory and a GPU in order to run quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it requires more memory and a GPU to run quickly.
```

You can mitigate those downsides by choosing a smaller transformer model.
The default model used in the TransformerQueryClassifier is `shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection`.

> We trained this using a mini BERT architecture which is about `50 MB` in size and allows relatively fast inference on CPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We trained this model using a mini BERT architecture of about 50 MB in size, which allows relatively fast inference on the CPU.
```

#### Transformers

> 

Reviewer: This section could use an intro what's it about

**Keywords vs. Questions/Statements (Default)**

> 

Reviewer: These code samples need an intro sentence explaning what they do

   ```python
   TransformersQueryClassifier(model_name_or_path="shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection")
   # output_1 => question/statement
   # output_2 => keyword query
   ```

Learn more about this model from its [model card](https://huggingface.co/shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection).

**Questions vs. Statements**

> 

Reviewer: here also an intro sentence

The TransformersQueryClassifier is more accurate than the SkLearnQueryClassifier as it is sensitive to the syntax of a sentence.
However, it requires more memory and a GPU in order to run quickly.
You can mitigate those downsides by choosing a smaller transformer model.
The default model used in the TransformerQueryClassifier is `shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection`.
We trained this using a mini BERT architecture which is about `50 MB` in size and allows relatively fast inference on CPU.

<Disclosures
    options={[
        {
            title: "bert-mini-finetune-question-detection",
            content: (
                <div>
                    A model trained on the mini BERT architecture that distinguishes between questions/statements, and keywords.<br></br>
                    <br></br>
                    To initialize, run:
                    <pre>
                        <code>TransformersQueryClassifier(model_name_or_path="shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection")</code>
                    </pre>
                    Output 1: Question/Statement<br></br>
                    Output 2: Keyword<br></br>
                    <br></br>

>                     To found out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://huggingface.co/shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection">model card</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    To find out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://huggingface.co/shahrukhx01/bert-mini-finetune-question-detection">model card</a>.
```

                </div>
            )
        },
        {
            title: "question-vs-statement-classifier",
            content: (
                <div>
                    A model trained on the mini BERT architecture that distinguishes between questions and statements.<br></br>
                    <br></br>
                    To initialize, run:
                    <pre>
                        <code>TransformersQueryClassifier(model_name_or_path="shahrukhx01/question-vs-statement-classifier")</code>
                    </pre>
                    Output 1: Question<br></br>
                    Output 2: Statement<br></br>
                    <br></br>

>                     To found out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://huggingface.co/shahrukhx01/question-vs-statement-classifier">model card</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    To find out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://huggingface.co/shahrukhx01/question-vs-statement-classifier">model card</a>.
```

                </div>
            )
        },
        {
            title: "gradboost_query_classifier",
            content: (
                <div>
                    A gradient boosting classifier that distinguishes between questions/statements and keywords.<br></br>
                    <br></br>
                    To initialize, run:
                    <pre>
                        <code>SklearnQueryClassifier(</code>
                        <code>    query_classifier = "https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier/model.pickle",</code>
                        <code>    query_vectorizer = "https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier/vectorizer.pickle")</code>
                    </pre>
                    Output 1: Question/Statement<br></br>
                    Output 2: Keyword<br></br>
                    <br></br>

>                     To found out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier/readme.txt">Readme</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    To find out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier/readme.txt">Readme</a>.
```

                </div>
            )
        },
        {
            title: "gradboost_query_classifier_statements",
            content: (
                <div>
                    A gradient boosting classifier that distinguishes between questions and statements.<br></br>
                    <br></br>
                    To initialize, run:
                    <pre>
                        <code>SklearnQueryClassifier(</code>
                        <code>    query_classifier = "https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/model.pickle",</code>
                        <code>    query_vectorizer = "https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/vectorizer.pickle")</code>
                    </pre>
                    Output 1: Question<br></br>
                    Output 2: Statement<br></br>
                    <br></br>

>                     To found out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/readme.txt">Readme</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    To find out more about how it was trained and how well it performed, see its <a href="https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/readme.txt">Readme</a>.
```

>     ```python

Reviewer: So again, some explanation of what this section contains and then explanation of the code samples

    SklearnQueryClassifier(query_classifier = "https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/model.pickle",
                      query_vectorizer = "https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/vectorizer.pickle")

    output_1 => question
    output_2 => statement
    ```
Learn more about this model from its [readme](https://ext-models-haystack.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/gradboost_query_classifier_statements/readme.txt).

## Zero-Shot Classification

> While most classification models, like those shown in the examples above, have a predefined set of labels, zero-shot classification models can perform classification with any set of labels that you define.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While most classification models, like the ones in the examples above, have a predefined set of labels, zero-shot classification models can perform classification with any set of labels you define.
```

Reviewer: I'dd add some more explanation about what zero-shot classification is. Imagine you're explaining this to me :)

To initialize a zero-shot QueryClassifier, run:

```python
 # In zero-shot-classification, you can choose the labels
 labels = ["music", "cinema"]

 query_classifier = TransformersQueryClassifier(
     model_name_or_path="typeform/distilbert-base-uncased-mnli",
     use_gpu=True,
     task="zero-shot-classification",
     labels=labels,
 )
 ```

Here the `labels` variable defines which labels you want the QueryClassifier to use. The model you pick should be a natural language inference model such as those trained on [the Multi-Genre Natural Language Inference (MultiNLI)](https://huggingface.co/datasets/multi_nli) dataset.

To perform the classification, run:

 ```python

>  queries = [

Reviewer: I think I'd add more comments to this code to walk them through what it does step by step

     "In which films does John Travolta appear?",  # query about cinema
     "What is the Rolling Stones first album?",  # query about music
     "Who was Sergio Leone?",  # query about cinema
 ]

 import pandas as pd

 query_classification_results = {"Query": [], "Output Branch": [], "Class": []}

 for query in queries:
     result = query_classifier.run(query=query)
     query_classification_results["Query"].append(query)
     query_classification_results["Output Branch"].append(result[1])
     query_classification_results["Class"].append("music" if result[1] == "output_1" else "cinema")

 pd.DataFrame.from_dict(query_classification_results)
 ```

> ## Query Type Definitions

Reviewer: I'd get rid of this title and move the contents under "distinguishing query types". But I also think you can just keep the previous version, I think it was pretty comprehensive.
